--- 
layout: post
title: New improved RoysWorld
---
Welcome to the new look Roysworld. I hope you like it. After getting addicted to reading my mate [James' weblog](http://thebloomers.blogspot.com) I decided that Roysworld would also become a weblog - so here it is.<br /><br />So what's been going on in Roy's World. Quite a lot really. I changed jobs back in November meaning that I now work in London. The commute is a bit long, but the work is really interesting. Still trying to come up with my 'killer idea' that will mean I can give up work. I would tell you the details of my latest plan - but then of course I would have to kill you... <br /><br />We've just moved Billy into his own room (that he's really proud of) and he's decided he wants a space theme - so most weekends now I've got my jigsaw and sander out and I'm screwin' and gluein' various bits of MDF together to turn the inside of a rather ordinary bedroom into a space craft. Billy's also trying to get through the night without a nappy now - so that's <i>fun</i>.<br /><br />Annie's growing up faster than can believe. She still smiles at me (well anyone actually) whenever I try to be 'amusing' so at least there's still one member of the household that enjoys my entertainment. Her latest hobby is blowing raspberries (and any food/drink/spittle that happens to be in her mouth) at anyone and everyone.<br /><br />Paula's as busy as ever <strike>spending money</strike> looking after the family and getting on with the art work for Billy's space room.
