--- 
layout: post
title: Budget Time Travel
---
Check out the [Time Travel Fund](http://www.timetravelfund.com "Time Travel Fund - Your Ticket To The Future") who will offer you time travel for the princely sum of $10. <br />This is how they say it works: <br /><br /><i>"Current scientific theory states that Time Travel may be possible, however the technology is a long way off, perhaps hundreds of years in the future. Now, assume it does become possible in say, 500 years. As with any technology, Time Travel will get less expensive as time goes on. Just as the price of a VCR has dropped to less than $70 from the several hundred dollars it cost just ten years ago, Time Travel, once it becomes feasible, will initially be very expensive yet it will become more and more economical as time goes by."</i><br /><i><br />"We establish a fund in current time. You make a small contribution to the fund, and in a few hundred years that small amount grows to a very large amount. From that fund, moneys will be taken and used to retrieve you, perhaps seconds after you join, perhaps even moments before your recorded death, perhaps some other point in your lifetime. Further, the fund may even pay to have you "rejuvenated" medically (assuming this is scientifically possible at that time,) and support you financially for a number of years. (Note: Retrieving you just before the moment of death is just one possible scenario, but one that would avoid any Star Trek(TM) type paradoxes. There are an unlimited number of other possibilities, and we do not know what they will do, we can only make reasonably informed guesses.)"</i><br /><br />As always there are [Disclaimers](http://www.timetravelfund.com/join.html "Disclaimers"):<br /><br /><i>" There is no time limit to how long this fund may exist. It may take five hundred years, or it may take five thousand years or more for the technology to become viable. It also may be possible that the technology will never become viable, or that the human race will bomb itself back to the stone age. We don't know the answers, we can just hope for the best."</i>
