--- 
layout: post
title: I See Dead People
---
OK.<br /><br />I admit it.<br /><br />I love [Most Haunted](http://www.livingtv.co.uk/mosthaunted/).<br /><br />For those of you who haven't seen it, Most Haunted is a cable show shown in the UK on the Living Channel. It's hosted by Yvette Fielding who used to be on Blue Peter and who once slept with one of [James'](http://www.thebloomers.co.uk/) mates. Her and her team (of more later) investigate the 'Most Haunted' locations in Europe and spend hours trying to capture evidence of ghostly goings on.<br /><br />If ever there was a show to prove that there are no such things as ghosts this is it. Each show follows the same formula: a bit of history about the location given by Yvette or resident historian Richard Felix (some bloke from Derby who owns Derby Gaol and thus is an expert in paranormal history).<br /><br />This is followed by (my favourite bit) spiritualist medium and scouser Derek Acorah who struts around getting info from his spirit guide Sam - the accuracy of which would be breathtaking if you assume he had no prior knowledge of the location or merely average if you assume he gets half an hour Google time between takes.<br /><br />Next comes the midnight vigil where the lights are turned off and everyone splits up into groups (apart from Yvettes hubby/producer Karl who tends to go somewhere on his own) and everyone gets really scared by the dark, 'orbs' (dust to you and me) and creaky wood.<br /><br />Every once in a while Derek will get possessed by a former resident and will march about talking in a funny voice, and sometimes the team will hold seances or table tipping where they promise us no-one is banging the table or leaning on it.<br /><br />This is all fantastically camp and dreadful TV, and I just can't get enough of it. AD18rnrn
