--- 
layout: post
title: Apple to release iPod software for Atari 8-bit computers
---
The original post for this article by Jeremy Borger is available [here](http://www.flamingmailbox.com/maccomedy/articles/020624ipodatari.html)<br /><br />Analysts said on Monday that Apple plans to release software for the Atari 8-bit which would allow users of the computer to sync the iPod to their machines.<br /><br />However, the limited sound capabilities of the Atari means the MP3s will only sound like bells and chirps when played on the computer.<br /><br />The new software, called "iTari", includes a special iPod-to-serial port cable. This is needed because the 8-bit Atari, which includes models such as the 400, 800, and 800XL, doesn't have a Firewire port. The special cable allows users to hook the iPod to the Atari's serial port. Unfortunately, this doesn't allow the iPod to be automatically recognized by the Atari. It must be synched manually. The entire 5 GB iPod can be synched in just under 4 days.<br /><br />This is big news for the estimated 527 active Atari 8-bit users.<br /><br />"We've been waiting a long time for this," said Atari enthusiast Pat Jackman. "Can't sync the iPod to the Commodore 64! Eat that, commies!"<br /><br />Apple first released the iPod last October with software only for the Macintosh. Many thought when Apple released a revised version, they would include Atari software. But earlier this year, when Apple came out with the 10 GB iPod, no Atari software was included.<br /><br />Apple may be releasing the iTari software in order to get a jump on third party developers who may be planning to come up with Atari iPod software on their own. There's currently no such software out there, but at least one programmer has been thinking about it.<br /><br />"I have an 8-bit Atari and was thinking about making software for it [to sync with the iPod]," said 38-year-old unemployed programmer Bruce Dickson. "But I figure there's only about seven people out there who'd be interested in using it, so it's probably not worth it."<br /><br />Will Apple making iPod software for the Atari hurt Mac sales?<br /><br />"The advantage Apple had with the iPod was that it was another reason for potential computer buyers to buy a Mac," said Guernsey Research analyst Chris LeTocq. "But why would consumers buy a $2000 Macintosh when they can get a $15 Atari from eBay?"<br /><br />The iTari software is expected to be released in July at MacWorld New York.
