--- 
layout: post
title: Derren Does Derek
---
Derren Brown's Messiah aired Friday and it was brilliant. He travelled around the US meeting with five influential people behind certain belief systems: psychic ability, christianity, new age, alien abduction and spiritualism. In each case he claimed to have 'powers' supporting their beliefs and demonstrated them; if any were to question whether Derren was tricking them and challenge him he would reply truthfully that he was. None questioned his ability and all believed that he was demonstrating proof of their beliefs. He stated that all of his effects were achieved through "magic, suggestion, psychology, misdirection, and showmanship".<br /><br />To challenge psychic ability he was "Daniel Owen" who developed skills after being struck by lightning. He demonstrated his skills to a number of psychics. This involved psychic Abby being sent to another room and asked to draw four simple images each of which Derren described to the others. One great moment was when Derren says to Abby "images sail through your mind... don't go overboard...", at which point she draws a boat. When she returns with her drawings Derren has described each of them pretty accurately. A bearded psychics comments on Derren (or Daniel)'s sincerity, and all are convinced at his psychic ability. <br /><br />Next Derren challenged Christianity by posing as "James Lawrence" who converts people to Christianity by poking them. This was demonstrated to Curt Nordhielm and Evangelist minister. Presumably using some form of hypnosis, Derren gets all of the previous non-believers to convert, leading to Curt being impressed but wanting to meet Derren again before giving a public endorsement. All participants were 'de-converted' after the demonstration.<br /><br />As Robert someone-or-other, Derren next poses as a new age entrepreneur who has invented some sort of dream recording machine. This is lent to a new age publisher who sleeps on it for a week, before meeting up again with Derren. After sticking some probes to his head, Derren proceeds to relay some aspects of her dreams back to her. How she is convinced by this is incredible, but none-the-less she is and invites Derren onto a radio show she runs. He declines. <br /><br />Derren next turns to alien abduction author and expert Ann Druffel, posing as abductee Richard Collins who since being abducted can read peoples medical problems just by touching them. He points out Ann's medical problems and she is so amazed she thinks it needs to be written up in a scientific journal. She invites him to speak at a meeting that evening, and again he declines.<br /><br />The last is my favourite, as he challenges spiritualism. If you've read my previous posts on Derek Acorah you will know my scepticism in this area. For this one he poses as Fraser Sherwell spirit medium, and does a reading for a number of sceptical New Yorkers (tough audience). He has three hits in the audience, reducing two of them to tears. Using the standard coldreading techniques, he performs excellently, giving a very convincing reading. If you didn't know otherwise you would think he really was speaking to the dead. You can bet your life there will be people watching thinking that Derren really does have these powers 'subconciously' and doesn't realise it. Some people will never be convinced. For me this was a really important experiment. Sure it will upset people and he will no doubt get loads of complaints, but it shows that if people <i>want </i>to believe then they <i>will </i>believe. Brilliant.
